date	title	description	type1/1/94	HTTP Cookies	"""The birth of the cookie: Netscape is credited with inventing the browser ""cookie,"" the innocently named little computer file that enables firms to build a profile of a user by recognizing and tracking his or her Web surfing behavior."" - NPR"	Technology1/1/95	First EU data protection directive	"""The EU issues its first data protection directive (DIRECTIVE 95/46/EC) regarding the processing of personal data and its free movement"" -NPR"	Law6/1/97	EPIC Privacy Policy Review	"""The Electronic Privacy Information Center reviews 100 of the most frequently visited Internet sites and reports in June 1997 that only 17 have explicit privacy policies."" -NPR"	Revelations1/1/99	First GPS phone	"""The first commercially available GPS phone is launched by mobile phone manufacturer Benefon and sold mainly in Europe."" - NPR"	Technology11/1/01	Patriot Act	"""Six weeks after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, President George W. Bush signs the Patriot Act into law. The bill, which grants broad new surveillance powers to law enforcement and intelligence agencies, is designed ""to identify, to dismantle, to disrupt and to punish terrorists before they strike."""" - NPR"	Law1/1/02	Total Information Awareness	"""Total Information Awareness"": The Pentagon is revealed to be building ""a computer system that could create a vast electronic dragnet, searching for personal information as part of the hunt for terrorists around the globe Ñ including the United States."" - NPR"	Revelations8/1/03	MySpace launches	"MySpace, one of the most popular social networking sites for teens in the mid-2000s, was launched in 2003."	Social Media2/4/04	Facebook launches	Facebook was founded in 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg and his Harvard classmates. It was originally restricted for use by college students only.	Social Media1/1/05	NSA Eavesdropping Revelations	"""The New York Times reports in December 2005: ""Months after the Sept. 11 attacks, President Bush secretly authorized the National Security Agency to eavesdrop on Americans and others inside the United States to search for evidence of terrorist activity without the court-approved warrants ordinarily required for domestic spying, according to government officials."" - NYT via NPR"	Revelations1/1/06	Contextual Integrity	"Nissenbaum and colleagues propose the framework of contextual integrity in their paper ""Privacy and contextual integrity: framework and applications"""	Theory7/1/06	Twitter launches	The social networking site famous for its 140-character messages launches in July 2006.	Social Media9/1/06	Facebook News Feed	"""Facebook, the popular social networking service, launches its new News Feed feature, which broadcasts changes members make to their Web profiles to the pages of others in their Facebook social networks."" -NPR"	Social Media9/26/06	Facebook Public Access	"Facebook became available to any users over age 13, not just college students."	Social Media1/1/07	Google Street View	"""Google Street View enables users to view and navigate within 360-degree panoramic street-level imagery of various U.S. cities."" - NPR"	Technology4/1/08	Facebook overtakes MySpace	Facebook had more monthly active users than MySpace for the first time in April 2008.	Social Media7/1/08	FISA Amendments	"""Congress passes the FISA Amendments Act in July 2008, expanding the federal government's surveillance powers and giving immunity to telecom companies that assist in a warrantless surveillance program."" - NPR"	Law1/1/09	Facebook TOS change	"""Tens of thousands of Facebook users protest against terms of service changes that allow Facebook to use anything uploaded to the site at any time, even after users have deleted their profiles and left Facebook. After the backlash, the company reverts to its original policy and issues a statement of rights and responsibilities surrounding its relationship with users."" - NPR"	Controversy3/1/10	Arab Spring	"A two-year-long wave of protests, demonstrations and coups in the Middle East coordinated on social media, resulting in the overthrow of several authoritarian governments. "	Social Media1/1/10	EFF exposes Facebook data collection	"""In 2010, the Electronic Frontier Foundation identified two personal information aggregation techniques called ""connections"" and ""instant personalization"". They demonstrated that anyone could get access to information saved to a Facebook profile, even if the information was not intended to be made public. "" - Wikipedia"	Revelations5/1/10	Facebook Privacy Settings Update	"""In May 2010, Facebook added privacy controls and streamlined its privacy settings, giving users more ways to manage status updates and other information that is broadcast to the public News Feed. Among the new privacy settings is the ability to control who sees each new status update a user posts: Everyone, Friends of Friends, or Friends Only. Users can now hide each status update from specific people as well. However, a user who presses ""like"" or comments on the photo or status update of a friend cannot prevent that action from appearing in the news feeds of all the user's friends, even non-mutual ones."" - Wikipedia"	Social Media7/16/10	"""Privacy is dead - get over it"""	"Assertion made by Steve Rambam, private investigator, at the Next HOPE conference."	Controversy1/1/11	Google Buzz Settlement	"""Google agrees to settle Federal Trade Commission charges that it used deceptive tactics and violated its own privacy promises to consumers when it launched its social network Google Buzz in 2010. Google had received thousands of complaints from users who were concerned about public disclosure of their email contacts which included, in some cases, ex-spouses, patients, students, employers or competitors."" - NPR"	Controversy1/1/12	Google Data Integration	"In January, Google announces it will integrate user data across its email, video, social-networking and other services. In a blog post, the company explains the plan will lead to ""a beautifully simple, intuitive user experience across Google."" - NPR"	Technology10/1/12	One Billion Users	Facebook announced that it had reached one billion monthly active users.	Social Media4/15/13	Facebook Teen Privacy Initiative	"""Facebook announced an alliance across 19 states with the National Association of Attorneys General, to provide teenagers and parents with information on tools to manage social networking profiles"" - Wikipedia"	Social Media6/1/13	Mass Surveillance Disclosures	"In June 2013, The Guardian published revelations about NSA surveillance leaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden. These disclosures sparked international interest and concern about mass surveillance."	Revelations4/14/16	GDPR Adopted	"""The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) (EU) 2016/679 is a regulation in EU law on data protection and privacy for all individuals within the European Union. It also addresses the export of personal data outside the EU. The GDPR aims primarily to give control to citizens and residents over their personal data and to simplify the regulatory environment for international business by unifying the regulation within the EU. It was adopted on 14 April 2016, and after a two-year transition period, becomes enforceable on 25 May 2018."" - Wikipedia"	Law3/1/18	Cambridge Analytica scandal	"""In April 2018, in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica data breach scandal, and refuting a report to the contrary by Reuters, Mark Zuckerberg announced that Facebook would implement additional privacy ""controls and settings"" worldwide. These settings were originally intended for deployment in Europe in order to comply with the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which take effect in May"" - Wikipedia"	Revelations5/25/18	GDPR Takes Effect	"Companies scramble to update their privacy policies in order to comply with the EU's new regulations for data use, which go into effect in May 2018."	Law